So now that we have heard about some of
the clinical applications for potential segmentation algorithms,
let us talk about some of the methods for building segmentation neural networks.
So a key concept behind the segmentation network is that you add
some kind of up-sampling path to
the downsampling path that we have seen in a classification network,
because in the end,
you do what could be thought of dance prediction,
where you are basically classifying
every single voxel of an image and you treat that as a classification problem,
but your classification space is very large.
The diagram like that is typical to different kinds of segmentation networks.
A segmentation network, which has been particularly
successful for segmenting medical imaging data sets is called U-NET.
The first paper has been published in 2015 and this network has been shown successful in
segmenting both non-radiological imaging like
pathologist's lights and 3G medical imaging data sets.
U-NET works well, even if you have now that's many examples,
which is another attribute of segmentation algorithm that you need to
be aware of because the ground truth for segmentation is expensive.
U-NET is pretty robust to image warping,
but it has a higher demand on the memory footprint.
This is a diagram of a U-NET network.
So you can see that it consists of a series of convolutional layers
which reduce the dimensions of an image and stack together
several convolutional maps and then you have the max pooling
layer and you go down like that till it hit what's called a bottleneck,
where you grow the amount of channels that you're dealing with,
amount of different feature maps that the network is discovering.
From this bottleneck, you start
your up convolution path and at every stage of the up convolution,
you concatenate the results of
the corresponding step from the down-sampling path which adds
robustness to the network and gives it interesting context of
both high resolution but a less contextual features and lower resolution,
but features bearing higher context.
We will look at how U-NET operates exactly in the exercise that's coming.
So in the exercise,
you're invited to train a U-NET algorithm on a tiny data set and
see how it converges on predicting the shape of a spleen on a CT scan of the abdomen.